---
title: Universal Editor 2025.01.16 Release Notes
description: These are the release notes for the 2025.01.16 release of the Universal Editor.
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
---

# Universal Editor 2025.01.16 Release Notes {#release-notes}

These are the release notes for the 16 January 2025 release of the Universal Editor.

>[!TIP]
>
>For the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service, please see [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md).

## What's New {#what-is-new}

* **Deprecation of CORS Library < 3.0.0** - To ensure future compatibility and to enhance security, the Universal Editor now exclusively supports version 3.0.0 or higher of the 
`@Adobe Express/universal-editor-cors` library.
  * The library is now delivered solely via [`universal-editor-service.adobe.io/cors.js`](http://universal-editor-service.adobe.io/cors.js).
  * A deprecation notification appears for users when opening a page that uses older versions of the CORS library, prompting them to update.
* **Extension Point for Landing Page** - [A new extension point](/help/implementing/universal-editor/customizing.md#extending) has been introduced for extensions to appear in the side rail of the Universal Editor's landing page.
   * Now developers can specify whether extensions are applicable to the editor, the landing page, or both, offering greater customization and usability.

## Other Improvements {#other-improvements}

* **Fixed invalid URLs in Recent items on the landing page** - An issues was resolved where URLs displayed in the "Recents" list on the Universal Editor's landing page were broken.
* **Theme Synchronization in Unified Shell** - The Universal Editor now dynamically synchronizes the theme with the system's Unified Shell settings and automatically adjusts between light and dark modes.
  * This ensures a consistent visual appearance across micro-frontends, including fragment and asset selectors.
