---
title: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.4.0 feature activation.
description: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.4.0 feature activation.
exl-id: cd996853-e77c-4c10-bb23-f4810dc3d881
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
---
# Maintenance Release Notes {#maintenance-release-notes}

The following section outlines the technical release notes for the maintenance releases of Experience Manager as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.4.0 feature activation.

## Release 15977 {#release-15977}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 15977, which was publicly released on April 19, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 15939.

2024.4.0 Feature Activation will provide the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap.html) for more information.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-15977}

* GRANITE-51335: Optimize AEM health check to increase instance stability.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-15977}

* CQ-4357226: Fix regression in the IMS Configurations support for OAuth credentials.
* GRANITE-51335: Ratelimit upgrade to 5.0.4 Fixed Felix Health Check registrations.

### Known Issues {#known-issues-15977}

* **(For AEM Forms only)**: After installing maintenance release 15977, Adaptive Form fields are rendering in the incorrect order during form authoring and for published forms. If you use AEM Forms, to avoid any inconvenience, it is recommended to not upgrade to this release until the issue is resolved in the upcoming maintenance release.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-15977}

* [JWT Credentials Deprecation in Adobe Developer Console](/help/security/jwt-credentials-deprecation-in-adobe-developer-console.md)

* Effective May 1, 2024, Adobe Dynamic Media is ending support for the following:

  * SSL (Secure Socket Layer) 2.0
  * SSL 3.0 
  * TLS (Transport Layer Security) 1.0 and 1.1
  * The following weak ciphers in TLS 1.2:
    * `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384`
    * `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA`
    * `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256`
    * `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_256_CBC_SHA`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_CAMELLIA_128_CBC_SHA`
    * `TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_3DES_EDE_CBC_SHA`
    * `TLS_RSA_WITH_SDES_EDE_CBC_SHA`

To know what is deprecated or removed in AEM as a Cloud Service, see [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md).

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-15977}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM OAK | 1.62.0|[Oak API 1.62.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.62.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.2 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.2 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.20-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.24.6|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|

## Release 15939 {#release-15939}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 15939, which was publicly released on April 17, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 15860.

2024.4.0 Feature Activation provides the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap.html) for more information.

>[!NOTE]
>
>Release 15939 has been made private on April 19th and has been replaced by release 15977.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-15939}

* GRANITE-39892: Update distribution for queue size limit and publish ready.
* GRANITE-48777: Update QS to com.adobe.granite.security.user-0.4.84 done.
* GRANITE-49421: Added properties for the segment service principal.
* GRANITE-49855: Write a feature model analyser that fails the Quickstart build in case of new commons.json usage.
* GRANITE-47995: Allow to switch writing of cq:isDelivered.
* GRANITE-50156 Bind AEMCS affinity to IMS User ID for Universal Editor.
* GRANITE-50556: Upgrade crosswalk bundle to v0.1.18.
* GRANITE-50728: Update FileVault to 3.7.3-T20240308111857-81fa88f1.
* GRANITE-50957: Update QS to com.adobe.granite.repository to 1.8.114.
* GRANITE-50158: Add support for OAuth Server to Server Credential flow in  YAML loader.
* GRANITE-51327: Update Oak to the latest public release (1.62.0).
* SKYOPS-68091 Update Java 11 runtime images to version 3.0.0.
* SKYOPS-70421: Upgrade the org.apache.sling.servlet-helpers bundle
* SKYOPS-73483: Allow logging token on AEM.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-15939}

* GRANITE-46901: Add metrics to messaging client.
* GRANITE-48793: Update QS to com.adobe.granite.crx-explorer-1.1.28.
* GRANITE-48937: Omnisearch doesn't work on aem/start.html page.
* GRANITE-49638: Fix wrong content type configuration for the RUM transformer factory.
* GRANITE-50141: IMSProviderImpl is spamming the log.
* SITES-20949: ComponentsIT.testEmbed failing after Youtube added referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin".
* SITES-21233: Core Components update - Fix Accordion after upgrade to 15860.
* SKYOPS-74819: Broken backwards compatibility for duplicate keys in Apache Commons.
* SKYOPS-67087: Clientlib aggregation not working in certain cases.
* CQ-4355415: AEM Notifications links is not working in 6.5 SP18.

### Known Issues {#known-issues-15939}

* CQ-4357226: Regression in the IMS Configurations support for OAuth credentials.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-15939}

* [JWT Credentials Deprecation in Adobe Developer Console](/help/security/jwt-credentials-deprecation-in-adobe-developer-console.md)

Have a look at [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md) to know what has been deprecated or removed in AEM as a Cloud Service.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-15939}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM OAK | 1.62.0|[Oak API 1.62.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.62.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.2 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.2 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.20-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.24.6|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|
