---
title: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.10.0 feature activation.
description: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.10.0 feature activation.
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
exl-id: 7050bb68-e71e-4c2e-8f27-313936b80415
---
# Maintenance Release Notes {#maintenance-release-notes}

The following section outlines the technical release notes for the maintenance releases of Experience Manager as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.10.0 feature activation.

## Release 18311 {#18311}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 18311, which was publicly released on October 22, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 18175.

The 2024.10.0 feature activation provides the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap) for more information.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-18311}

* ASSETS-41820 : Indexing improvements for processing watchdog.
* ASSETS-43720 : Functional improvements to processing watchdog.
* ASSETS-42554 : Performance improvements for large folders.
* SKYOPS-77603 : Management of redirects by business users.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-18311}

* ASSETS-37534 : Changes in search to not expose property used for approval target.
* ASSETS-38322 : Remove publish criteria provider config Remove publish event feature.
* ASSETS-40482 : Accessibility issue in play/pause and mute/unmute button in Scene7 video player.
* ASSETS-40593 : Error page occurs after clicking on "Properties" button in Assets > Files.
* ASSETS-40598 : Sync smart crops when unsynced asset is moved to a sync enabled folder.
* ASSETS-40743 : Issues with triggering Replace Asset dialog when certain characters exist in filename.
* ASSETS-40825 : Assets Search Facets Disappearing After Editing Search Form.
* ASSETS-41007 : Deletion on AEM sometimes leaves orphan Assets on Delivery.
* ASSETS-41172 : Dynamic Media Templates special chars not allowed in name.
* ASSETS-41896 : Assets mentioned in cq:discarded property on the folder should NOT be published to Brand Portal.
* ASSETS-42067 : Dynamic Media Templates - Download gives error.
* ASSETS-42070 : Dynamic Media Templates - Non-admin users should have Template create/edit access.
* ASSETS-42344 : Connected Assets Sync disconnected - Reconnect and advice for customer.
* ASSETS-42620 : Issue with the preview option of asset versions - shows blank preview when we open the asset.
* ASSETS-42701 : Web Optimized Image Delivery and Cropping Issue.
* ASSETS-42966 : Async barricade can become unblocked in error due if multiple jobs share the same path.
* ASSETS-43072 : Dynamic Media Templates - Template references lookup breaks on an invalid reference.
* ASSETS-43212 : Internationalisation issues in metadata schema editor.
* ASSETS-43202 : Fixes for selecting annotations to print from timeline.
* ASSETS-43502 : AEM CS Existing Image Preset Name Not Displayed on Edit Page.
* ASSETS-43538 : Async copy assets job uses incorrect property for source path.
* ASSETS-43798 : Check for destination path first before copying assets.
* ASSETS-43945 : Increase retry delay to 20 min for async assets job queue.
* ASSETS-44025 : Async delete assets job fails for when individual assets are selected.
* SITES-26128 : Class cast exception in CreateLiveCopyStep.
* SCRNS-4551 : [SG Pools] Screens channel containing video component shows "General Page Error" on browser preview and player

### Known Issues {#known-issues-18311}

* FORMS-15818: Component descriptor entry `OSGI-INF/com.adobe.aemfd.docmanager.impl.*.xml` not found statements in server logs. These are harmless log statements.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-18311}

Deprecated and removed features and APIs in AEM as a Cloud Service are detailed in the [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md) document.

### Security Fixes {#security-18311}

AEM as a Cloud Service is dedicated to optimizing your platform's security and performance. This maintenance release addresses 3 identified vulnerabilities, reinforcing our commitment to robust system protection.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-18311}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak | 1.70.0|[Oak API 1.70.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.70.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.6 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.6 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.24-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.27.0|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|

## Release 18175 {#release-18175}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 18175, which was publicly released on October 10, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 17964. Release 18099 has been made private because of an issue.

The 2024.10.0 feature activation provides the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap) for more information.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-18175}

* ASSETS-38322: Enabling http request event for AEM.
* ASSETS-41448: Update auth.ims bundle to support FI to group mappings.
* ASSETS-41684: Add out of the box OSGI configurations to define FI to group mapping for Assets, Foundation, Sites, and Forms.
* ASSETS-43015: Update to the latest auth.ims bundle.
* CQ-4356633: Add extra character in the "Content Only" tooltip.
* GRANITE-50948: Integrate repository service into AEM Support for repository service.
* GRANITE-52454: Adding support helper 0.1.2.
* GRANITE-52454: Upgrading Support Helper GRANITE-52454 upgrading support helper to use the latest release for AEMaaCS.
* GRANITE-53287: Updating security-privileges integration test version.
* GRANITE-53485: Support Service Principal authentication for replication Azure Blob Storage.
* GRANITE-53514: Treeactivation updated to version 1.0.26.
* GRANITE-53870: Create internal mechanism to skip the max JVM version check for the quickstart.
* GRANITE-53914: Fix Platform test failures with Java 17 Updated module version.
* GRANITE-53966: Use separate thread pool for content-distribution.
* GRANITE-54006: update Jackson to 2.17.2.
* GRANITE-54038: Add the Creative Cloud Enterprise IMS client to the AEM IMS client allowlist.
* GRANITE-54054: Environment variable for com.adobe.granite.repository.impl.SystemUserValidation warnOnly.
* GRANITE-54266: Production SDK missing Search Suggestor service.
* GRANITE-54274: Accept Firefly IMS client.
* GRANITE-54300: Update Oak to latest public release (1.70.0).
* GUIDES-19069: Add guidesPeerLinkIndex for AEM guides add-on.
* SITES-23584: Fix failing test for Foundation component on Java 17.
* SKYOPS-69768: SlingModels do not deserialize ResourceResolvers.
* SKYOPS-76378: Improve thread-safety of ResourceBundle registration/deregistration in i18n.
* SKYOPS-79285: Update Sling XSS to 2.4.2.
* SKYOPS-82383: Expose the 'helm-values' convert-merge-analyse result in the command execution descriptor.
* SKYOPS-84810: skip "40-initialize-publish.sh" execution on startup for RDE.
* SKYOPS-84951: Fix Mutable content checksum generation code.
* SKYOPS-85335: Update org.apache.sling.jcr.repoinit to 1.1.52.
* SKYOPS-85336: Update Sling Commons Threads to 3.3.0.
* SKYOPS-86329: updating versions of platform test modules for java 21 sdk support.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-18175}

* CNTBF-298: Remove jcr:uuid from CC exported packages.
* SKYOPS-83910: Fix concurrency issues found in SKYOPS-82371. 
* GRANITE-52876: Update to com.adobe.granite.ui.content 0.8.1448.
* GUIDES-14445: Native PDF generation fails with an error related to getting dependencies for Node.js.
* GUIDES-16961: The title with `<conref>` doesn't resolve in the Baseline and Translation dashboards of the Web Editor.
* GUIDES-17283: When selecting the **Use metadata added in the topicmeta** option, the metadata properties are not propagated in the document proprieties of the Native PDF output.
* GUIDES-17793: The referenced PDF isn’t activated from the **Bulk Publish Dashboard** during the Bulk Activation of published content.
  
For more information about the new and enhanced Guides features and issues fixed in the release, view the [Experience Manager Guides release roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-guides/using/release-info/aem-guides-releases-roadmap).

### Known Issues {#known-issues-18175}

* FORMS-15818: Component descriptor entry `OSGI-INF/com.adobe.aemfd.docmanager.impl.*.xml` not found statements in server logs. These are harmless log statements.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-18175}

Deprecated and removed features and APIs in AEM as a Cloud Service are detailed in the [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md) document.

The following is a summary of recently-deprecated features or those in the process of deprecation.

#### JavaScript Use API

[The JavaScript Use API](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec/blob/master/SPECIFICATION.md#42-javascript-use-api) is officially deprecated due to challenges users have debugging and maintaining code that leverages the API, as well as performance limitations compared to the Java alternative.

You should transition to [the Java Use API,](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-htl/content/java-use-api) which offers better performance, easier debugging, and greater long-term support.

#### com.day.cq.wcm.api

Please note that Adobe is in the process of updating `com.day.cq.wcm.api`. Some of its methods and classes have been marked as `@Deprecated` in the current release. These will be removed in future releases. Please consider switching to their suggested alternatives.

#### org.apache.jackrabbit.oak.plugins.blob

* GRANITE-54165: Deprecate org.apache.jackrabbit.oak.plugins.blob in public API.

### Security Fixes {#security-18175}

AEM as a Cloud Service is dedicated to optimizing your platform's security and performance. This maintenance release addresses 2 identified vulnerabilities, reinforcing our commitment to robust system protection.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-18175}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak | 1.70.0|[Oak API 1.70.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.70.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.6 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.6 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.24-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.27.0|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|

## Release 17964 {#release-17964}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 17964, which was publicly released on September 25, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 17689. Release 17882 has been made private because of an issue.

The 2024.10.0 feature activation provides the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap) for more information.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-17964}

* ASSETS - 37750: [Priority 4] [GraphQL] Support for DM scene7 URLs: image smart crops.
* CQ - 4354583: [AEMaaCS] Send translation process events via Adobe Pipeline.
* CQ - 4357642: Update MSFT credentials in OOTB Connector.
* CQ - 4358217: Deserialize request body from request entity.
* CQ - 4358342: Register RequestProcessors on only one HTTP method.
* FORMS - 10781: Enhance rule editor to create rules for next/prev item in a panel.
* FORMS - 14595: [Browserless Feature] Values are missing in the DoR when prefilled data is used to compute the DoR for Browserless rendering.
* FORMS - 15619: AEM Forms Updated Translation Kit.
* FORMS - 16113: [Adobe Sign]Unable to update agreement status by a different user.
* FORMS - 16155: [Rule Editor] Implement Async function.
* GRANITE - 53872: Add new env vars for IMS Client ID.
* SITES - 23738: Release Core Components 2.27.0.
* SITES - 16610: Content Fragments: Get launch details endpoint.
* SITES - 16614: Content Fragments: Rebase Launch endpoint.
* SITES - 16615: Content Fragments: Promote Launch endpoint.
* SITES - 24215: Content Fragments: Implement Get Launch sources endpoint.
* SITES - 20336: Content Fragments: Improve validation when deleting a Content Fragment Model.
* SITES - 21090: Content Fragments: Add support for fractional min/max values for number fields
* SITES - 21658: Content Fragments: Upgrade to use UUID-references.
* SITES - 23054: Content Fragments: Copy Content Fragment Models.
* SITES - 23264: Content Fragments: Create a static schema of a model.
* SITES - 23265: Content Fragments: Expose the static schema of a model through the UI schema GET endpoint.
* SITES - 23266: Content Fragments: Ability to add constraints to Content Fragment Models.
* SITES - 23778: Content Fragments: Search Content Fragment Models should allow searching for models that have never been published.
* SITES - 23335: Content Fragments: Add support for external asset references.
* SITES - 24626: Content Fragments: RTC: Permissions for UUID migration: 2.
* SITES - 24786: Content Fragments: Enhancements for `referencesTree` endpoint.
* SITES - 24833: Content Fragments: Remove the validation of HTML input against a list of allowed HTML tags.
* SITES - 23380: GraphQL: use proper API to read asset metadata.
* SITES - 22864: [Edge Delivery] Universal editor with new AEM content structure integration H2 2024.
* SITES - 23584: Foundation component tests fail on Java 17.
* SITES - 23662: Eventing: User that triggers a publish request cannot be extracted from JCR log statements in server logs. 
* SITES - 23301: Add support for starting a new workflow to create folder structures when creating Translations of Content Fragments.
* SITES - 23336: Content Fragments: Add support for external asset references
* SITES - 24091: MSM content package split: master.
* SITES - 24114: isSourceRenderCondition: Reduce error log message to DEBUG.
* SITES - 24166: Remote assets mitigation for Touch-UI editor.
* SITES - 24409: Register all request processors on only one HTTP method.
* SITES - 25008: Improve handling of PersistenceExceptions and permissions problems.
* SITES - 24821: Make aem.page / aem.live the default.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-17964}

* CQ - 4356887: Inconsistency in Translation Project Status for Akamai Technologies Inc.
* CQ - 4357340: Links in Experience Fragments Language Copy are not correctly updated.
* CQ - 4357878: Translation framework is not setting error state upon vendor failure translation.
* CQ - 4358028: Failed to create project if thumbnail is uploaded.
* CQ - 4358290: Target Setting is NOT Working on Published Page.
* FORMS - 13173: Dropdown list misalignment in Adaptive Form > Rule Editor > Drop object field.
* FORMS - 13873: AFv2: (“-”) in the name of component result in failure of rules.
* FORMS - 14340: Error in instantiation of FormsAndDocumentOmniSearchHandler and CloudStorageSubmitActionInserter.
* FORMS - 15363: Displayed Name in Rule Editor.
* FORMS - 15381: UI enhancement of Authorization Scope message.
* FORMS - 15595: AEM Form TnC Component Consent Text line break issue.
* FORMS - 15623: AEMaaCS Forms - Alternatives to Update Multiple Tables in Dynamics with One POST.
* FORMS - 15682: AEM Forms - Unable to bind DOR to Dynamics FDM.
* FORMS - 15799: Adobe Sign GovCloud Signature page does note render in iframe.
* FORMS - 15835: Post-submission form URL rewrite issue.
* FORMS - 16091: Consuming the restructured Binary.java.
* FORMS - 16096: Forms User does not have access to rest endpoint dialog.
* FORMS - 16139: Adding required logging for DoR in core-components form.
* FORMS - 6935: State of active component lacks 3 to 1 contrast ratio.
* FORMS - 7018: Empty element receives focus.
* GRANITE - 53028: NPE In ExternalProcessPollingHandler.
* GRANITE - 53907: Unable to identify service user as workflow super user.
* SITES - 24405: Content Fragments: Extended Info for enums should be more resilient
* SITES - 23024: Content Fragments: Enumeration does not return locked: true in GET fragments.
* SITES - 23269: Content Fragments: Creating Content Fragments allows setting locked fields.
* SITES - 23337: Content Fragments: Batch endpoint with `body` fails with casting exception.
* SITES - 23474: Content Fragments: Pagination should exclude broken resources in Search Content Fragments.
* SITES - 23615: Content Fragments: Content Fragment copy AuthoringInfo is not updated
* SITES - 23668: Content Fragments: Patch live copy with multifield fails with 400
* SITES - 23695: Content Fragments: Tab description is not available in UiSchema
* SITES - 23704: Content Fragments: Multi-value enums not supported in _extendedInfo
* SITES - 23781: Content Fragments: Duplicate values not allowed in enumeration fields
* SITES - 24150: Content Fragments: Content Fragment Version Authoring data about creation is missing
* SITES - 24230: Content Fragments: Fix filtering after `modified` replication status in Search Content Fragment Models
* SITES - 24233: Content Fragments: Filtering by `publishedBy` can include unpublished resources in Search Content Fragment Models
* SITES - 24355: Content Fragments: Live Relationship is not respected for folder created Content Fragments
* SITES - 24816: Content Fragments: ValidationStatus messages order inconsistent.
* SITES - 23896: Eventing: More events are coming together with a Page Moved event
* SITES - 23899: Eventing: Page events are delayed or not generated at all
* SITES - 23961: Eventing: Creating Content Fragment Models with references fails when a configuration folder is present
* SITES - 23963: Eventing: Page deleted events are sometimes not coming
* SITES - 23443: GraphQL: GraphQL Cursor query inconsistent behavior.
* SITES - 10994: Keyboard focus order is not logical.
* SITES - 16357: AEM: Button is truncated in Setup Analytics tab the from Sites menu.
* SITES - 19836: Ghost component in container is displayed on publish and preview instances.
* SITES - 22348: Live Copy Overview page fails to load if their are above 100 live copies for a project.
* SITES - 22960: Unclosed resource resolver in ContentFragmentModelOmniSearchHandler.
* SITES - 23284: URL encoding causing blank path browser dialog.
* SITES - 23505: Components show incorrect URLs when the page is moved to another location.
* SITES - 23574: Not able to preview / compare to current versions for many pages
* SITES - 23585: Issue with Restoring Inheritance for components having cq:responsive node
* SITES - 23650: Discrepancy in Incoming Links Count in AEM Author Environment
* SITES - 23659: Content Language Servlet regression caused by the toggle FT_* SITES - 9757
* SITES - 23759: Assets added on experience fragment are not published with Launches
* SITES - 24025: 302 Redirects in AEM returning location header using internal DNS instead of public DNS
* SITES - 24036: Investigation needed for AEM RTE Persisting Characters in ASCII Format
* SITES - 24317: Proxy Configuration not working with Basic Authentication
* SITES - 24918: fix 504 errors returned occasionally when using dedicated ip egress.

### Known Issues {#known-issues-17964}

* FORMS - 15818: Component descriptor entry `OSGI-INF/com.adobe.aemfd.docmanager.impl.*.xml` not found statements in server logs. These are harmless log statements.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-17964}

Deprecated and removed features and APIs in AEM as a Cloud Service are detailed in the [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md) document.

The following is a summary of recently-deprecated features or those in the process of deprecation.

#### JavaScript Use API

[The JavaScript Use API](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec/blob/master/SPECIFICATION.md#42-javascript-use-api) is officially deprecated due to challenges users have debugging and maintaining code that leverages the API, as well as performance limitations compared to the Java alternative.

You should transition to [the Java Use API,](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-htl/content/java-use-api) which offers better performance, easier debugging, and greater long-term support.

#### com.day.cq.wcm.api

Please note that Adobe is in the process of updating `com.day.cq.wcm.api`. Some of its methods and classes have been marked as `@Deprecated` in the current release. These will be removed in future releases. Please consider switching to their suggested alternatives.

### Security Fixes {#security-17964}

AEM as a Cloud Service is dedicated to optimizing your platform's security and performance. This maintenance release addresses 16 identified vulnerabilities, reinforcing our commitment to robust system protection.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-17964}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak | 1.68.0|[Oak API 1.68.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.68.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.6 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.6 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.24-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.27.0|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|
