---
title: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.9.0 feature activation.
description: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.9.0 feature activation.
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
exl-id: 6a01ba29-ee6b-4090-8cb6-c566c2fd7011
---
# Maintenance Release Notes {#maintenance-release-notes}

The following section outlines the technical release notes for the maintenance releases of Experience Manager as a Cloud Service associated with 2024.9.0 feature activation.

## Release 17689 {#release-17689}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 17689, which was publicly released on September 10, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 17569.

The 2024.9.0 feature activation will provide the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap) for more information.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-17689}

* ASSETS-41404: Changes to support DRM improvements.
* ASSETS-41621: Updated async Asset copy job.
* ASSETS-32166: Updated async Asset move job.
* ASSETS-41429: Image presets support in DM OpenAPI.
* ASSETS-38968: Improve representation of Content Fragments references.
* ASSETS-41787, ASSETS-41183: Improvements for Assets Bulk Operations framework.
* GRANITE-52917: Optimizations to improve content copy package installation times.
* SCRNS-3980: Detect Grey screen on players having subsequences with no asset scheduled.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-17689}

* ASSETS-40875: Spurious NPE logged by AssetDeleteHandler.
* ASSETS-42422: Avoid triggering of async job for single Asset move.
* ASSETS-41234: Unified Shell - Global nav might not work if opened when search bar is open.
* ASSETS-42256: Unified Shell - Tag/Badge indicating environment only works intermittently.
* ASSETS-41271: Prevent unnecessary republish of Assets during move operations.
* ASSETS-38894: Limit Retries by processing watchdog.
* ASSETS-40815: Use preview PDF rendition for showing PPT file in Link Share UI .
* ASSETS-37123: Cannot load Asset preview in Link Share Dialog.
* CQ-4358156: update backlinks of tag being deleted.
* SCRNS-4495: Fixed Paste button not functioning properly for different user groups.
* SCRNS-4512: Remove components related to device from AEMaaCS screens.
* SCRNS-4466: On Channel Dashboard, hide - View manifest, generate offline content, update manifest cache, display panel.
* SCRNS-4513: Add column headers for search results page in list view.

### Known Issues {#known-issues-17689}

* FORMS-14340: Error in instantiation of FormsAndDocumentOmniSearchHandler and CloudStorageSubmitActionInserter. These are harmless log statements.
* FORMS-15818: Component descriptor entry ‘OSGI-INF/com.adobe.aemfd.docmanager.impl.*.xml’ not found statements in server logs. These are harmless log statements.
* SITES-23662: User that triggers a publish cannot be extracted from JCR log statements in server logs. This is for a feature under development that might cause intermitent and harmless “Cannot find a valid user id in the batch of OSGI events” errors in the log.

### Change Notice {#change-notice-17689}

* Starting in September 2024, AEM as a Cloud Service will disable the serialization of Resource Resolvers via the Sling Model Exporter framework. See [the documentation](/help/implementing/developing/disallow-resourceresolver-serialization.md) for more details.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-17689}

Please note that we are in the proces of updating `com.day.cq.wcm.api` and with the current release, we have marked as `@Deprecated` a few of its methods and classes. These will be removed in future releases, so please consider switching to their suggested alternatives if you are using any of them.

Deprecated and removed features and APIs in AEM as a Cloud Service are detailed in the [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md) document.

### Security Fixes {#security-17689}

AEM as a Cloud Service is dedicated to optimizing your platform's security and performance. This maintenance release addresses 4 identified vulnerabilities, reinforcing our commitment to robust system protection.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-17689}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak | 1.68.0|[Oak API 1.68.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.68.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.6 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.6 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.24-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.26.0|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|

## Release 17569 {#release-17569}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 17569, which was publicly released on August 27, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 17465.

The 2024.9.0 feature activation will provide the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap) for more information.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-17569}

* CQ-4353778: Translation Process Events.
* CQ-4354583: Send translation process events via Adobe Pipeline.
* CQ-4356479: Allow only Adobe code to use the /adobe servlet context.
* CQ-4358226: Save Translation keyword functionality doesn't work for particular String format.
* CQ-4358270: AEM Translation Kit: August 08.
* CQ-4358310: Add oak-compat-query-spi-1.2 to quickstart.
* GRANITE-49833: Batching support for event sender and proxy.
* GRANITE-52053: Remove usages of Commons Collections 3: Platform others.
* GRANITE-52492: Elastic async catchup in case of PIT restore.
* GRANITE-53099: Update to Apache Felix Http Jetty 5.1.24.
* GRANITE-53125: Add classification to CloudEvent.
* GRANITE-53328: Update Filevault to 3.8.0-T20240726111512-3cc11d50 containing stashing logging improvements.
* GRANITE-53453: update commons-lang to 3.15.0.
* GRANITE-53478: Update Filevault to version 3.8.0.
* GRANITE-53505: Update QS to commons-collections-3.2.2-adobe-2.
* GRANITE-53528: Update version of platform artifacts .
* GRANITE-53547: Provide alternative API avoiding usage of Apache Commons Lang 2.
* GRANITE-53575: Use BSAFE 6.2.5 in CS.
* GRANITE-53608: Update Oak to latest public release (1.68.0).
* SITES-23583: Sites Evergreen tests fail on Java 17.
* SKYOPS-79535: Update to rum script v2.
* SKYOPS-79816: Enable Sling Feature Analyzer Task for Service User Mappings in FACT Tool.
* SKYOPS-81179: AEM builds testing for bundles toggling.
* SKYOPS-81866: Report warnings for bundles known to be incompatible with Java 21.
* SKYOPS-82660: Update Sling API to 2.27.6.
* SKYOPS-82961: Update to Sling ResourceResolver 1.12.0-T20240723153354-a0270a0.
* SKYOPS-83356: Create global dashboard for tracking JVM versions used in AEM deployments.
* SKYOPS-83436: Java Runtime 21 rollout breaks creation of adaptive forms AEM Forms.
* SKYOPS-84272: Log the java version used on aem launcher startup.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-17569}

* CMGR-60225: Pipeline execution failure identified on AEM Sites CS customer while validating update to AEM release 17486.
* GRANITE-45919: Embargoed countries in Country/Region list in Edit User Settings.
* GRANITE-51715: Picker does sometimes not enter the selection into the text field.
* GRANITE-53290: Correctly check the protocol when parsing the URL in the XSS check.
* GRANITE-53576: Wrong definition of service ranking in OSGi configurations.
* SKYOPS-82129: Memoryleak in Sling Models.

### Known Issues {#known-issues-17569}

* ASSETS-40875 - The AssetDeleteHandler class listens for asset delete events and performs specific actions based on the type of delete event (PRE_DELETE or POST_DELETE). In certain scenarios, the POST_DELETE type of event causes a NullPointerException.
* FORMS-14340 - Error in instantiation of FormsAndDocumentOmniSearchHandler and CloudStorageSubmitActionInserter. These are harmless log statements.
* FORMS-15818 - Component descriptor entry 'OSGI-INF/com.adobe.aemfd.docmanager.impl.*.xml' not found statements in server logs. These are harmless log statements.
* SITES-23662 - User that triggers a publish cannot be extracted from JCR log statements in server logs. This is for a feature under development that might cause intermitent and harmless "Cannot find a valid user id in the batch of OSGI events" errors in the log.

### Change Notice {#change-notice-17569}

* Starting in September 2024, AEM as a Cloud Service will disable the serialization of Resource Resolvers via the Sling Model Exporter framework. See [the documentation](/help/implementing/developing/disallow-resourceresolver-serialization.md) for more details.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-17569}

Please note that we are in the proces of updating `com.day.cq.wcm.api` and with the current release, we have marked as `@Deprecated` a few of its methods and classes. These will be removed in future releases, so please consider switching to their suggested alternatives if you are using any of them.

Deprecated and removed features and APIs in AEM as a Cloud Service are detailed in the [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md) document.

### Security Fixes {#security-17569}

AEM as a Cloud Service is dedicated to optimizing your platform's security and performance. This maintenance release addresses 4 identified vulnerabilities, reinforcing our commitment to robust system protection.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-17569}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak | 1.68.0|[Oak API 1.68.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.68.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.6 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.6 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.24-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.26.0|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|
