---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.11.0
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service release 2021.11.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 98fd6d8a-ddc2-4f53-9dfc-d8e21af0c14d
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.11.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.11.0.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current Release Notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.11.0 is November 4, 2021.
The next release is planned for December 16, 2021.

## What's new {#what-is-new}

* Users can now use new Front End pipelines to deploy Front End code exclusively in an accelerated manner. See [Cloud Manager Front End Pipelines](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/configuring-pipelines/introduction-ci-cd-pipelines.md#front-end) to learn more.

   >[!IMPORTANT]
   >To use new Front End pipelines, you must be using AEM version `2021.10.5933.20211012T154732Z`.

* Optimizing the code analysis process greatly reduces the Code Quality pipeline duration. This workflow eliminates the need to build an entire AEM image, streamlining the workflow. This change is rolling out progressively over the weeks following the release.

* The Git Commit ID is now displayed in the pipeline execution details making it easier to track the code that was built.

* Program Creation is now available through the publicly exposed API.

* Environment Creation is now available through the publicly exposed API.

* The `x-request-id` response header is now visible in the API Playground on [developer.adobe.com/](https://developer.adobe.com/). This header is useful when submitting customer care issues for troubleshooting.

* As a user, I see that the Pipeline card, with zero pipelines, provides me with appropriate guidance. 

* A new Activity Page is now available where activities such as pipeline and code executions can be viewed along with their associated details. Over time, the activities listed in this page will expand in scope along with the details provided.

* The new Pipelines page now features an on-hover status popover, allowing for a Quickview of summary details. Pipeline executions can be viewed along with their associated details.

* The Edit Pipeline API now supports changing the environment used in the deploy phases.

* An optimization in the OakPal scanning process has been introduced for large packages.

* The quality issue CSV file now contains the timestamp for each quality issue. 

## Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* Certain unorthodox build configurations resulted in unnecessary files being stored in the pipeline's Maven artifact cache, which resulted in extraneous network I/O when starting and stopping the build container. 

* Pipeline PATCH API fails if the deploy phase does not exist.

* The `ClientlibProxyResourceCheck` quality rule was producing false positive issues when there were client libraries with common base paths.

* The error message when the max number of repositories has been reached did not specify the reason for the error.

* In rare cases, pipelines were failing due to inappropriate retry handling of certain response codes.

