---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.7.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) as a Cloud Service Release 2021.7.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 7ef738a5-4657-482d-848b-e95e4fb816f9
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.7.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) as a Cloud Service 2021.7.0.

>[!NOTE]
>To see the current Release Notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service, click [here](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/release-notes/release-notes/release-notes-current.html).

## Release Date {#release-date}

The Release Date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.7.0 is July 15, 2021.


### What's New {#what-is-new}

* Customers can now use Azul 8 and 11 JDKs for their Cloud Manager build processes and can either select to use one of these JDKs for toolchains-compatible Maven plugins *or* the entire Maven process execution.

* The outbound egress IP is now logged in the build step log file. 

* Stage and Production environments running old versions of AEM now report a status of **Update Available**. 

* The maximum SSL certificates supported has increased to 20 per program.

* The maximum number of domains that can be configured has increased to 500 per environment.

* The **Manage Git** button has been retitled to **Access Git Info** and the dialog box has been visually refreshed.

* The version of the AEM Project Archetype used by Cloud Manager has been updated to version 28.

### Bug Fixes {#bug-fixes}

* In some situations, Preview was not an available option when binding an IP allowlist to an environment.

* Manually navigating to the execution details page for a non-existing execution did not show an error, just an endless loading screen.

* The error message shown when the maximum number was reached of SSL certificates, was not helpful.

* In some circumstances, there could be a discrepancy in the release version shown in the pipeline card on the **Overview** page.

* Add program wizard incorrectly stated that the name cannot be changed after creation. 

### Known Issues {#known-issues}

Customers switching to use the Azul JDKs should know that not all existing applications compile without error on the Azul JDK. It is highly recommended to test locally before switching.
