---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.2.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) as a Cloud Service Release 2021.2.0
exl-id: 281f9523-dec2-44f1-9459-5a45d48489d9
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.2.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) as a Cloud Service 2021.2.0.

## Release date {#release-date}

The Release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.2.0 is February 11, 2021.

## Cloud Manager {#cloud-manager}

### What's new {#what-is-new}

* Assets customers can now choose when and where to deploy their Brand Portal instance in a self-service way via Cloud Manager UI. For a regular (non-sandbox) program with Assets solution, Brand Portal can now be provisioned in the Production environment. The provisioning can be done only once on Production environment.

* The AEM Project Archetype used in Project and Sandbox Creation has been updated to version 25. 

* The list of deprecated APIs identified during code scanning has been refined to include additional classes and methods deprecated in the latest Cloud Service SDK releases.

* SonarQube profile for Cloud Manager updated to remove Sonar rule `squid:S2142`. This no longer conflicts with Thread Interruption checks.

* Cloud Manager UI now informs the user who temporarily may not be able to add/update a domain name because the associated environment either has a running pipeline attached to it. Or, it is waiting for the approval step.

* Properties set in customer `pom.xml` files prefixed with sonar are now dynamically removed to avoid build and quality scanning failures.

* Cloud Manager UI now informs the user if an SSL certificate cannot be temporarily selected because it is in use by a domain name currently being deployed.

* Additional Code Quality Rules have been added to cover Cloud Service Compatibility issues.

### Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* Matching an SSL certificate against a domain name is no longer case sensitive.

* Cloud Manager UI now informs a user if the certificate private keys does not meet the 2048-bit limit with an appropriate error message.

* Sometimes, an internal issue may cause environment deletion to be stuck. 

* Some pipeline failures were incorrectly reported as pipeline errors.
