---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.3.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) as a Cloud Service Release 2021.3.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: f826e0c6-3b1d-44f5-99a2-f792f5df3a55
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.3.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) as a Cloud Service 2021.3.0.

## Release date {#release-date}

The Release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.3.0 is March 11, 2021.

## Cloud Manager {#cloud-manager}

### What's new {#what-is-new}

* Customers with environments with pre-existing Custom Domain Name configurations for [IP Allow Lists](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/ip-allow-lists/managing-ip-allow-lists.md#pre-existing-cdn), [SSL Certificates](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/managing-ssl-certifications/managing-certificates.md#pre-existing-cdn) and [Custom Domain Names](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/custom-domain-names/check-domain-name-status.md#pre-existing-cdn), see a message about their previously existing configurations. In those cases, they are able to self-serve by way of the user interface. 

* Users with the requisite permissions can now edit a Program, allowing them to do the following in a self-service manner: 
   * Add Sites solution to an existing program with Assets or conversely.
   * Remove Sites or Assets from an existing program with both Sites and Assets.
   * Add a second, unused solution entitlement either to an existing program, or as a new Program.

* **AEM Maintenance Update** label is displayed for both pipeline execution and Activity screens.

* If an environment is hibernated, but there is also an AEM update available, the **Hibernated** status takes precedence over **Update available**.

* Users can now see their Cloud Manager roles by selecting the 'View Cloud Manager roles' option after navigating to the User Profile icon (top right) of Experience Cloud. 

* The label **Application for Approval** has been relabeled to **Production Approval** for greater clarity.

* The **Version** label has been relabeled to **Git Tag** in the Production pipeline execution screen.

* Labels defining the response to important metrics not meeting the threshold have been updated for clarity. They now read as **Cancel Immediately** and **Approve Immediately** to reflect their true behavior.

* The class and method deprecation lists have been updated based on version `2021.3.4997.20210303T022849Z-210225` of the AEM Cloud Service SDK.

* The Cloud Manager Production pipeline now includes [Custom UI Testing](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/functional-testing.md#custom-ui-testing) capability.

### Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* Package versioning was skipped sometimes during AEM push upgrade.

* Some quality issues were not properly discovered when packages were embedded in other packages.

* In obscure situations, the default program name generated upon opening the Add Program dialog could be a duplicate of an existing program name. 

* On occasion, if a user navigates away from the pipeline execution page immediately after starting a pipeline, an error message is displayed stating that the action failed, although the execution actually starts.

* The build step was restarted when customer builds resulted in invalid packages.

* On occasion, a user may see a green "active" status next to an IP Allowlist even when that configuration was not deployed.

* All existing production pipelines are automatically enabled with the Experience Audit step.

