---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.9.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.9.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 42cc9cab-6e66-4976-a3b1-ecb9dbaaabf4
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.9.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.9.0.

>[!NOTE]
>To see the current Release Notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service, click [here](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/release-notes/release-notes/release-notes-current).

## Release date {#release-date}

The Release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.9.0 is September 09, 2021.

### What's new {#what-is-new}

* The version of the AEM Project Archetype used by Cloud Manager has been updated to version 30.
* The program cards on the Cloud Manager landing page and the associated experience have been refreshed.
* The Code Quality Step Log now includes verbose logging information on the OakPal scanning process.
* The Activity page menu options now include an option to **Download Log** for completed Code Generator executions. Selecting this option downloads the log of the build step.
* Clicking directly on the Program card now navigates to Cloud Manager's **Overview** page. See [Creating a Production Program](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/implementing/using-cloud-manager/programs/creating-production-programs) for more details.

### Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* When attempting to add an IP allowlist in a program that has reached its limit, the user now receives a clearer message. This update improves understanding by indicating that the maximum number of IP allowlists has been reached.
* The wrong URL was copied when selecting the copy URL menu option from the Repositories screen. 


