---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2021.5.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.5.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 8ae3cf2f-1865-427a-b612-bdf56e2f0304
role: Admin
---
# Release notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.5.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the release notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.5.0.

>[!NOTE]
>To see the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service, click [here](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/release-notes/release-notes/release-notes-current).

## Release date {#release-date}

The Release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.5.0 is May 06, 2021.

### What's new {#what-is-new}

* The PackageOverlaps quality rule now detects cases where the same package was deployed multiple times, that is, in multiple embedded locations, in the same deployed package set.

* The repository endpoint in the Public API now includes the Git URL.

* The deployment log downloaded by a Cloud Manager user is more insightful and now includes details about failures and success scenarios.

* Intermittent failures encountered while pushing code to Adobe Git are now resolved.

* Commerce add-on can now be applied to Sandbox programs during the Edit program workflow.

* The *Edit program* experience has been refreshed. 

* The Domain Names table in the Environment Details page displays up to 250 Domain names by way of pagination. 

* The **Solutions & Add-ons** tab in **Add Program** and **Edit Program** workflows displays the solution, even if only one solution is available for the Program.

* The error message in the build step log when the build did not produce any deployed content packages was unclear.

### Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* On occasion, a user may see a green "active" status next to an IP Allow List even when that configuration was not deployed. 

* Instead of removing 'deleted' variables, the pipelines variables API would only mark them with the status **DELETED**. 

* Some Code Smell-type quality issues were incorrectly impacting the Reliability Rating.

* Since wildcard domains are not supported, the UI disallows the user from submitting a wildcard domain.

* If a pipeline started between midnight and 1:00 A.M. UTC, Cloud Manager could generate an artifact version. That version was not guaranteed to be higher than the one created the previous day. This versioning issue affected consistency during that time window.

* During Sandbox program setup, once the project with sample code has been successfully created, Manage Git appears as a link from the hero card in the Overview page.

