---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.4.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.4.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: a11ebe0e-2872-4fde-acc0-5babc6b01e1a
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.4.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.4.0.

## Release date {#release-date}

The Release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.4.0 is April 08, 2021.
The next release is planned for May 06, 2021.

### What's new {#what-is-new-april}

* UI updates to the Add and Edit Program workflows to make it more intuitive.

* A user with the requisite permissions can now submit the commerce end point via the UI.

* Environment variables can now be scoped to a specific service, either author or publish. Requires AEM Version `2021.03.5104.20210328T185548Z` or higher.

* The **Manage Git** button is displayed on the Pipelines card even when no pipelines have been configured.

* The version of the AEM project archetype used by Cloud Manager has been updated to version 27.

* Projects in the Adobe Developer console created by Cloud Manager can no longer be unintentionally edited or deleted.

* When a user adds a new environment, they are informed that after an environment is created it cannot be moved to a different region. 

* Environment variables can now be scoped to a specific service, either author or publish. Requires AEM Version 2021.03.5104.20210328T185548Z or higher. 

* The error message when starting a pipeline when an environment was deleted has been clarified.

* OSGi bundles provided by Eclipse projects are now excluded from rule `CQBP-84--dependencies`.

### Bug fixes {#bug-fixes-cm-april}

* If a user does not add a content audit override when creating a new production pipeline, the default homepage is not audited.

* Issues for the `CloudServiceIncompatibleWorkflowProcess` had the incorrect severity in the downloadable issue CSV file. 

* The `Runmode` check was producing false positives on non-folder nodes.
