---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2023.7.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager 2023.7.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 7b6280e8-b9cd-4fc8-9f48-ecf9b41b41b8
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2023.7.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service {#release-notes}

This page documents the release notes for Cloud Manager release 2023.7.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager release 2023.7.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service is June 29, 2023. The next release is planned for August 10, 2023.

## What's new {#what-is-new}

* Cards on the Cloud Manager landing page now indicate if [enhanced security](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/getting-access-to-aem-in-cloud/creating-production-programs.md) is enabled for their programs.
* If a development [pipeline](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/configuring-pipelines/introduction-ci-cd-pipelines.md) contains no testing steps, users now have the option to include testing steps when they [start the pipeline](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/configuring-pipelines/managing-pipelines.md#running-pipelines). This functionality is planned for rollout in a phased manner.
* When [canceling execution](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/configuring-pipelines/managing-pipelines.md#view-details), the pipeline execution approval step now asks the user to provide a reason for canceling. This functionality is planned for rollout in a phased manner.
* Users can now access [logs from the copy content process](/help/implementing/developing/tools/content-copy.md#accessing-logs). This option is available only if both the source and destination environments are on AEM version `2023.7.12549` or higher.

## Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* Navigating to the authoring UI from Cloud Manager no longer fails to redirect into Experience Cloud after login.
* Editing the go-live date via the go-live widget now navigates to the **Go Live** tab instead of the **Enhanced Security** tab.
* When starting a copy operation, a user is no longer able to select an environment where a copy operation is already invoked.
