---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2023.8.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager 2023.8.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.
feature: Release Information
exl-id: d0b160ae-afc2-4158-a16a-6319ef2343e8
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2023.8.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service {#release-notes}

This page documents the release notes for Cloud Manager release 2023.8.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager release 2023.8.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service is August 10, 2023. The next release is planned for September 7, 2023.

## What's new {#what-is-new}

* When configuring a content set to [copy content](/help/implementing/developing/tools/content-copy.md), [context-aware configurations](/help/implementing/developing/introduction/configurations.md) are now permitted in content sets in the UI.
* Enhancements were made to improve the comprehensibility and surfacing of error messages in Cloud Manager UI.

## Early adoption program {#early-adoption}

Be a part of Adobe's early adoption program and have a chance to test some upcoming features.

### Self-Service Content Restore {#content-restore}

[A new self-service content restore feature](/help/operations/restore.md) now provides backup restoration for up to seven days and is available to early adopters for evaluation purposes featuring:

* Point-in-time backup restoration for the previous 24 hours
* Fixed time restorations for up to seven days

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, send an email to `aemcs-restorefrombackup-adopter@adobe.com` from your email associated with your Adobe ID.

* The early adoption program is limited to development environments only.
* Availability of the early adoption program of this feature is limited.
* This feature is for recovering accidentally deleted content and is not intended for disaster recovery.

### Experience Audit Dashboard {#experience-audit-dashboard}

[The Cloud Manager Experience Audit dashboard](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/experience-audit-dashboard.md) includes a trended view of your page performance scores along with insights and recommendations to help you improve them. Experience Audit is included as a step in the Cloud Manager production pipeline.

The dashboard leverages Google Lighthouse, an open-source, automated tool for improving the quality of your web apps. You can run it against any web page, public or requiring authentication. It has audits for performance, accessibility, progressive web apps, SEO, and more.

Interested in test-driving the new dashboard? Send an email to `aem-lighthouse-pilot@adobe.com` from your email associated with your Adobe ID to get started.

## Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* The **Environments** menu now closes after triggering the **[Copy Content](/help/implementing/developing/tools/content-copy.md)** modal.
* [A pipeline re-execution](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/deploy-code.md#reexecute-deployment) is no longer allowed if the previous execution does not have a `commitId` set on the build phase state.
* A more understandable message is now displayed for rare errors when a user clicks on a pipeline in the **Activity** or **Pipeline** screens.
* The `contentSetName` value is no longer missing in logs and is now provided in the inputs when starting a [content copy](/help/implementing/developing/tools/content-copy.md) operation.
* It is no longer possible under certain rare circumstances to start two executions from the same pipeline leading to a "stuck" state.
* When a certificate expires, domain names and IP Allow Lists associated with the certificate are no longer removed from the CDN.
  * In such cases, the site continues to be reachable.
  * [The Cloud Manager UI](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/managing-ssl-certifications/introduction-to-ssl-certificates.md) provides more visible advance warnings that the SSL certificate is about to expire.
* A problem with AEM losing access to a publish endpoint was fixed in situations when Sites is added as a solution to an Assets-only program.
