---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2023.12.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager 2023.12.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 6888de5e-6cd5-4396-a60c-2dc638317aff
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2023.12.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service {#release-notes}

This page documents the release notes for Cloud Manager release 2023.12.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager release 2023.12.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service is December 14, 2023. The next release is planned for January 18, 2024.

## What's new {#what-is-new}

* [Cloud Manager custom permissions](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/custom-permissions.md) let you create custom permission profiles with configurable permissions to restrict access to programs, pipelines, and environments for Cloud Manager users.
  * This feature is scheduled for phased rollout, with completion expected in the February 2024 Cloud Manager release.
  * Send an email to `Grp-CloudManager-custom-permissions@adobe.com` from the email address associated with your Adobe ID, if you want to be enabled sooner.
* Build containers now support Node.js version 18 for [frontend pipelines](/help/implementing/developing/introduction/developing-with-front-end-pipelines.md).
* For newly created Cloud Manager programs, [the associated New Relic sub-account](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/user-access-new-relic.md) is not activated by default.
  * For existing programs where the New Relic sub-account has not been accessed for more than 90 days, it is deactivated.
  * If you want to use the New Relic sub-account, you must enroll by way of Cloud Manager.
* The rollouts of updates to the [build environment](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/getting-access-to-aem-in-cloud/build-environment-details.md) that were [announced and begun with the October release of Cloud Manager](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/release-notes/2023/2023-10-0.md) have been completed.
  * Support for Node 18 was added for [front end pipelines](/help/implementing/developing/introduction/developing-with-front-end-pipelines.md).
  * Java 8 minor version was updated to `jdk1.8.0_371`.
  * Java 11 minor version was updated to `jdk-11.0.20`.
  * Maven was updated to version to 3.8.8.
    * Maven now disables all insecure `http://*` mirrors by default.
    * [Adobe recommends](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/getting-access-to-aem-in-cloud/build-environment-details.md) users update their Maven repositories to use HTTPS instead of HTTP.
  * The build container base image was updated to Ubuntu 22.04.

## Early adoption program {#early-adoption}

For a chance to test some upcoming features, be a part of Adobe's early adoption program.

### Client-Side Collection via Real Use Monitoring (RUM) {#rum}

You can leverage the [Real Use Monitoring (RUM) Data Service](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/content-requests.md#cliendside-collection) to enable client-side collection for AEM as a Cloud Service.

Real Use Monitoring (RUM) Data Service offers a more precise reflection of user interactions, ensuring a reliable measure of website engagement. It is a great opportunity to gain advanced insights into your page performance. It is beneficial for customers who use either Adobe-managed CDN or non-Adobe managed CDN. For customers using a non-Adobe managed CDN, automated traffic reporting can now be enabled for them, thus removing the need to share any traffic report with Adobe.

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, send an email to `aemcs-rum-adopter@adobe.com` from the email address associated with your Adobe ID. Include the domain name for production, stage, and dev environments in your email.  Availability of the early adoption program of this feature is limited.

### Bring your own GitHub {#byo-github}

If you use GitHub to manage your repositories, [you can now validate code directly within your GitHub repositories through Cloud Manager](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/managing-code/private-repositories.md). This integration eliminates the need to sync code consistently with the Adobe repository and lets you verify pull requests before merging them into the main branches.

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, send an email to `Grp-CloudManager_BYOG@adobe.com` from your email address associated with your Adobe ID.

### Self-Service Content Restore {#content-restore}

[A new self-service content restore feature](/help/operations/restore.md) now provides backup restoration for up to seven days and is available to early adopters for evaluation purposes featuring:

* Point-in-time backup restoration for the previous 24 hours
* Fixed time restorations for up to seven days

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, send an email to `aemcs-restorefrombackup-adopter@adobe.com` from your email associated with your Adobe ID.

* The early adoption program is limited to development environments only.
* Availability of the early adoption program of this feature is limited.
* This feature is for recovering accidentally deleted content and is not intended for disaster recovery.

### Experience Audit Dashboard {#experience-audit-dashboard}

[The Cloud Manager Experience Audit dashboard](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/experience-audit-dashboard.md) includes a trended view of your page performance scores along with insights and recommendations to help you improve them. Experience Audit is included as a step in the Cloud Manager production pipeline.

The dashboard uses Google Lighthouse, an open-source, automated tool for improving the quality of your web apps. You can run it against any web page, public, or requiring authentication. It has audits for performance, accessibility, progressive web apps, SEO, and more.

Interested in test-driving the new dashboard? To get started, send an email to `aem-lighthouse-pilot@adobe.com` from your email associated with your Adobe ID.
