---
title: Current Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service.
description: Current Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service.
exl-id: eee42b4d-9206-4ebf-b88d-d8df14c46094
---
# Maintenance Release Notes {#maintenance-release-notes}

The following section outlines the technical release notes for the current maintenance release of Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release X {#release-X}

Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release X, which was publicly released on May X, 2024. The previous maintenance release was release 16145.

2024.5.0 Feature Activation provides the full feature set for this maintenance release. See the [Experience Manager Releases Roadmap](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-release-information/aem-release-updates/update-releases-roadmap) for more information.

### Enhancements {#enhancements-forms}

* FORMS-9606: Previously, in the Adaptive Forms editor, only field values could be mapped to the response of an invoke service. Now, authors have the ability to map any property of the field to the invoke service response.
* FORMS-7483: AEM Forms JSON Schema Parser now supports JSON schema (2020-12).
* FORMS-13209: A handler is included to override Adaptive Forms default submission success and submission failure handlers. You can configure these handlers via Adaptive Forms Rule Editor. 
* FORMS-13612: Screen readers now read error messages, short descriptions, and long descriptions for fields in core component-based Adaptive Forms. Additionally, support has been added to invalidate adaptive form inputs when the form contains errors and is not valid for submission.
* FORMS-12052: A form author can now apply custom functions to preprocess data before submission. 
* FORMS-11295: Added support for SHA256 with ECDSA algorithm for AEM Forms Digital Signature.
* FORMS-9432: An additional content type (REST Endpoint) has been added to the data source cloud configuration. It enables data submission in key-value pairs to an authenticated endpoint.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-forms}

* FORMS-13827: In the Adaptive Forms Rule Editor, the WHEN operation does not currently support different types of fields with date pickers.
* FORMS-13786: In the Adaptive Forms Rule Editor, the drag-and-drop functionality is not working for custom functions.
* FORMS-13587: In the Adaptive Forms Editor, the Device Emulator feature is not functioning correctly for Core Components based Adaptive Forms.
* FORMS-14376 When a user presses the Reset button, it results in console errors if the static text is marked as unbound.
* FORMS-13801:  Even if the terms and conditions component is disabled, the corresponding checkbox is remains enabled.
* FORMS-11952: When a form is submitted, the submit URL generated by the form starts with /content/ instead of /portale/, misrouting the request. This prevents the request from reaching the intended servers.
* FORMS-13616: The date picker is showing the current date as one day behind, likely due to a timezone issue, and there's difficulty in setting the correct date format due to this inconsistency and an additional display pattern problem. 
* FORMS-13829: The dropdown, controlled by rules to mimic radio button functionality, fails to populate correctly after a selection is cleared and reselected. The desired behavior is for individual checkboxes to act as radio buttons, allowing only one selection at a time and permitting deselection of all options.
* FORMS-14244: In an Adaptive Form based on an XDP with embedded scripts on checkboxes, the scripts are not executed for elements after such checkboxes.
* FORMS-14267: Users are experiencing consistent timeout errors when sending API requests across development, stage, and production environments. These requests are related to generating PDFs, sometimes with data prefilled using data binding. The issue results in a hanging process that eventually times out but succeeds upon retrying after the error.
* FORMS-11589: For users with only the AEM Forms solution (without any other solutions), the frontend pipeline is not functioning.
* FORMS-13896: In DoR (Document of Record) output, dates, and numbers are displayed in Arabic regardless of whether the input data is merged using Gregorian numbers.

### Known Issues {#known-issues-X}

None.

### Deprecated Features and APIs {#deprecated-X}

To know what is deprecated or removed in AEM as a Cloud Service, see [Deprecated and Removed Features and APIs](/help/release-notes/deprecated-removed-features.md).

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-X}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak | 1.62.0|[Oak API 1.62.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.62.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API | 2.27.2 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.2 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL| 1.4.20-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components| 2.24.6|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|
