---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2022.9.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager 2022.9.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.
feature: Release Information
exl-id: d61ef0fe-f632-4222-bb7b-10a337010942
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2022.9.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service {#release-notes}

This page documents the release notes for Cloud Manager 2022.9.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager release 2022.9.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service is September 8, 2022. The next release is planned for October 6, 2022.

## What's new {#what-is-new}

* AEM Guides can now be configured in a self-service manner on Sandbox programs.
* Only customers with a Cloud Manager role can access program details. However, they can navigate to Author end points from Cloud Manager landing pages.
* Customers can set up **Incident and Proactive notification** groups to hear from Adobe about incidents or recommendations related to their AEMaaCS application. See [Notification Profiles](/help/journey-onboarding/notification-profiles.md) for more details.
* Add Program affordance in the UI consistently provides tool tips when it is disabled due to permission or entitlement related reasons.

## Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* Add Environment workflow includes additional validations to ensure a successful outcome.
* Improved customer feedback related to customer AEM app builds when maven faces connectivity issues to private repos.


