---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2022.01.0
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service release 2022.01.0.
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 2dfdc943-0518-40ea-8712-1dabb97eeaa9
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2022.01.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the release notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2022.01.0.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2022.01.0 is January 20, 2022. The next release is planned for February 10, 2022.

## What's new {#what-is-new}

* Cloud Manager [avoids rebuilding the code base when it detects that the same git commit is used](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/getting-access-to-aem-in-cloud/setting-up-project.md#build-artifact-reuse) in multiple full-stack pipeline executions.
* Accessing the AEM environment log now requires the **Deployment Manager** product profile. Users without this profile see a disabled button in the user interface.
* The UI only allows front-end pipeline configurations for programs where Sites is enabled as a solution.
* On generating a git password, the expiration date is displayed.

## Bug fixes {#bug-fixes}

* Null pointer exceptions encountered by some front-end pipeline deployments have been corrected.
* Environment variables can now be added, updated, and deleted when an environment is running an outdated version of AEM.
* The build image step is no longer marked as ERROR for pipelines that used the scheduled step in certain rare cases.
* For programs with only one repository, the pipeline execution screen now displays the repository name.
