---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.5.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2021.5.0
feature: Release Information
---

# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2021.5.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.5.0.

## Release Date {#release-date}

The Release Date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2021.5.0 is May 06, 2021.
The next release is planned for June 03, 2021.

### What's New {#what-is-new}

* The PackageOverlaps quality rule now detects cases where the same package was deployed multiple times, i.e. in multiple embedded locations, in the same deployed package set.

* The repository endpoint in the Public API now includes the Git URL.

* Deployment log downloaded by a Cloud Manager user will be more insightful and will now include details about failures and success scenarios.

* Intermittent failures encountered while pushing code to Adobe git have now been resolved.

* Commerce add-on can now be applied to Sandbox programs during the Edit program workflow.

* The Edit program experience has been refreshed. 

* The Domain Names table in the Environment Details page will display up to 250 Domain names via pagination. 

* The Solutions tab in Add Program and Edit Program workflows will display the solution, even if only one solution is available for the Program.

* The error message in the build step log when the build did not produce any deployed content packages was unclear.

### Bug Fixes {#bug-fixes}

* On occasion, user may see a green "active" status next to an IP Allow List even when that configuration was not deployed. 

* Instead of removing 'deleted' variables, the pipelines variables API would only mark them with status **DELETED**. 

* Some Code Smell-type quality issues were incorrectly impacting the Reliability Rating.

* Since wildcard domains are not supported, the UI will disallow the user from submitting a wildcard domain.

* When a pipeline execution was started between midnight and 1am UTC the artifact version generated by Cloud Manager was not guaranteed to be greater than a version created the prior day.

* During Sandbox program setup, once the project with sample code has been successfully created, Manage Git will appear as a link from the hero card in the Overview page. 