---
title: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2023.2.0 feature activation.
description: Maintenance Release Notes of [!DNL Adobe Experience Manager] as a Cloud Service associated with 2023.2.0 feature activation.
exl-id: 0d60468b-50a8-4ceb-8441-085f0d4e2652
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
---
# Maintenance Release Notes {#maintenance-release-notes}

The following section outlines the technical release notes for the maintenance releases of Experience Manager as a Cloud Service associated with 2023.2.0 feature activation.

## Release 11382 {#release-11382}
 
Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 11382, which was publicly released on March 28, 2023. This maintenance release is an update from previous maintenance release 11289.

Feature enablement for this maintenance release provides you with the full feature set. See the [current release notes](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for full details.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
> There is a discrepancy on the CloudManager user interface, showing "2023.3.11382", while the official release is "2023.02". This discrepancy is due to the delayed activation of the 2023.02 features.
> Adobe is working on fixing this issue for upcoming releases.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-11382}

#### Sites {#sites-issues-11382}

- SITES-7796 - Ability for content author to publish the Content Fragment, with its respective Variations, when exporting to Target
- SITES-97 - GraphQL: Pagination & Sorting, hybrid filtering

>[!NOTE]
>
> In SITES-97, some improvements have been made in the GraphQL implementation that might cause unexpected behavior. See [AEM GraphQL changes regarding handling of null values](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-cloud-kcs/kbarticles/KA-21792.html) for more information.

#### Assets {#assets-issues-11382}

- ASSETS-20076 - Add support for video watermarking that matches the current image watermarking support
- ASSETS-21428 - Added exclusions for CSS changes
- ASSETS-21023 - Fixed Smart Crop rendition, where customers could observe a Null Pointer exception on the Publisher instance of all AEM environments when  tried to access these renditions through the API.

#### Forms {#forms-issues-11382}

- CQ-4351502 - Updating service user mapping to allow read access in Sites

#### Platform {#platform-issues-11382}

- SITES-11040 - Conditional enablement of GraphQL persisted query caching in Dispatcher
- SKYOPS-49280 - When installing a config or bundle update using RDE into Publish the result may not be observable because the Publish Dispatcher cache is not invalidated

### Known Issues {#known-issues-11382}

- SITES-12573 - GraphQL queries using variables inside a filter fails if one variable is not specified. Do not update to this release shall you use GraphQL with AEM as a Cloud Service.
- SKYOPS-51970 - Identified regression of the FACT version used in the buildImage step, leading to unmatching user mapping.
- GRANITE-44542 - Issues have been reported for customers who did not specify a package nodetype (by providing a .content.xml with jcr:primaryType) for folders included in the package filter. This issue was caused these folders to be treated as nt:folder, creating issues in various cases.
- SKYOPS-56928 - Apache HTTPD regression might cause 404 errors. If you experience those issues, for safety reasons, it is recommended to roll back to the previous version and to avoid any pipeline running during that time period.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-11382}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak |1.48-T20230202132234-aa49252 |[Oak API 1.48.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.48.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API |Version 2.27.0 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL|Version 1.4.20-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components|Version 2.21.2|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|

## Release 11289 {#release-11289}
 
Summarized below are the continuous improvements for maintenance release 11289, which was publicly released on March 7, 2023. This maintenance release is an update from previous maintenance release 10912.

Feature enablement for this maintenance release provides you with the full feature set. See the [current release notes](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for full details.

### Fixed Issues {#fixed-issues-11289}

#### Sites {#sites-issues-11289}

- SITES-11584 Fixed issue with Live Copies that could not be created for pages with annotations
- SITES-11683 Disabled MSM Live Copies with partially broken inheritance

#### Assets {#assets-issues-11289}

- ASSETS-20879 Fixed regression preventing Asset Reports UI from working correctly and resulted in incorrect results in generated reports.
- ASSETS-21020 Fixed issue with broken asset download - Image profile does not exist after moving asset
- ASSETS-21023 Fixed issue with image renditions in Dynamic Media preventing access through the API

#### Forms {#forms-issues-11289}

- None

#### Platform {#platform-issues-11289}

- GRANITE-44467 - Fixed issue causing import to fail, when updating an existing node, Filevault under certain instances did not preserve mixin types and child nodes

### Known Issues {#known-issues-11289}

Do not upgrade if you are using CORS. An issue impacting the GraphQL content delivery functionality was identified in this release. A change in the default AEM Dispatcher configuration regarding how GraphQL persisted queries are cached can break GraphQL content delivery of such queries. This issue will be fixed in Adobe's next maintenance release.

### Embedded Technologies {#embedded-tech-11289}

|Technology|Version|Link|
|---|---|---|
|AEM Oak |1.44-T20221206170501-6d59064 |[Oak API 1.44.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.jackrabbit/oak-api/1.44.0/index.html)| 
|AEM SLING API |Version 2.27.0 |[Apache Sling API 2.27.0 API](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.sling/org.apache.sling.api/latest/index.html)|
|AEM HTL|Version 1.4.20-1.4.0 |[HTML Template Language Specification](https://github.com/adobe/htl-spec)|
|AEM Core Components|Version 2.21.2|[AEM WCM Core Components](https://github.com/adobe/aem-core-wcm-components)|
