---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2024.8.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service
description: Learn about the release notes for Cloud Manager 2024.8.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
exl-id: ad673f82-8c4a-4904-9007-273273b82fba
---
# Release notes for Cloud Manager 2024.8.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service {#release-notes}

This page documents the release notes for Cloud Manager release 2024.8.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager release 2024.8.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service is August 14, 2024. The next release is planned for September 14, 2024.

## What's new {#what-is-new}

* [Additional publish regions](/help/operations/additional-publish-regions.md) and a [99.99% SLA](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/getting-access-to-aem-in-cloud/creating-production-programs.md#sla) (Service Level Agreement) are now available for AEM Forms as a Cloud Service.
  * This enhancement lets you achieve higher SLAs with increased uptime and lower latency, ensuring best-in-class experiences for your globally distributed users.

## Early adoption program {#early-adoption}

For a chance to test some upcoming features, be a part of Adobe's early adoption program.

### Edge Delivery Services support in Cloud Manager {#edge-delivery-services}

If you have licensed Edge Delivery Services as part of AEM Sites, [you can now onboard your site with Edge Delivery Services directly in Cloud Manager](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/edge-delivery/introduction-to-edge-delivery-services.md) and go live using a guided, self-service experience.

This capability provides a unified experience for all your AEM properties. It ensures consistency across critical workflows such as domain name management, SSL certificate management, and CDN mappings.

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, send an email to `aemcs-cmedgedelsvs-program-adopter@adobe.com` from the email address associated with your Adobe ID. 

### Domain Validated (DV) certificates

With Cloud Manager, you are now able to [self-service generate and manage domain validated (DV) SSL certificates](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/managing-ssl-certifications/add-ssl-certificate.md). This capability gives you the fastest, easiest, and most cost-effective solution to create a secure website for your online business.

If you would like to test this new feature and provide your feedback, send an email to `Grp-aemcs-dv-dert-adopter@adobe.com` using the email address linked to your Adobe ID.

### Experience Audit Dashboard {#experience-audit-dashboard}

[The Cloud Manager Experience Audit dashboard](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/experience-audit-dashboard.md) includes a trended view of your page performance scores along with insights and recommendations to help you improve them. Experience Audit is included as a step in the Cloud Manager production pipeline.

The dashboard uses Google Lighthouse, an open-source, automated tool for improving the quality of your web apps. You can use it to audit any web page, whether public or requiring authentication. It provides assessments for performance, accessibility, progressive web apps, SEO, and more.

Curious about trying out the new dashboard? To begin, send an email to `aem-lighthouse-pilot@adobe.com` using the email linked to your Adobe ID.

## Bug fixes

* Pipeline steps were found to be running after the pipeline was deleted.
* Configuration pipelines were showing a `FAILED` status incorrectly in rare cases.

