---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2024.7.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service
description: Release notes for Cloud Manager 2024.7.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 9c73d7ab-c2c2-4803-a07b-e9054220c6b2
role: Admin
---

# Release Notes for Cloud Manager 2024.7.0 in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service {#release-notes}

This page documents the release notes for Cloud Manager release 2024.7.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service.

>[!NOTE]
>
>See [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md) for the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service.

## Release date {#release-date}

The release date for Cloud Manager release 2024.7.0 in AEM as a Cloud Service is July 18, 2024. The next release is planned for August 8, 2024.

## What's New {#what-is-new}

* The [production pipeline](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/configuring-pipelines/configuring-production-pipelines.md#adding-production-pipeline) and [non-production pipeline](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/configuring-pipelines/configuring-non-production-pipelines.md#adding-non-production-pipeline) trigger **On Git Changes** to start the pipeline on a commit is now available for [private repositories](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/managing-code/private-repositories.md). This functionality is being rolled out in a phased manner with completion by mid-August.
* When adding an [Adobe managed DV certificate](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/managing-ssl-certifications/add-ssl-certificate.md), you can now add a single certificate that covers multiple domains instead of creating a certificate for each domain.
* Solutions that do not have [additional publish regions](/help/operations/additional-publish-regions.md) can now be added to a program as long as the program has at least a Sites or Forms solution applies to it.
* Solutions that do not have [99.99% SLA](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/getting-access-to-aem-in-cloud/creating-production-programs.md#sla) can now be added to a program as long as the program has at least a Sites or Forms solution applies to it.
* The [Experience Audit Dashboard](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/experience-audit-dashboard.md) has been enhanced in a number of ways.
  * Audits now run against `.com` endpoints via CDN, replacing the previous `.net` approach.
    * This change simulates real user experiences more accurately and helps you make more informed decisions about managing and optimizing your website.
  * Multiple enhancements were made to the Experience Audit UI including:
    * A trended view of performance, best practices, SEO, and accessibility was added.
    * The Lighthouse raw report link is now visible in a more intuitive way, directly in the scan snapshot details panel.
    * The Lighthouse recommendations section was enhanced.
  * The PWA metric was removed in accordance with Lighthouse version 12.0.0, which eliminated this metric.
* [The AEM Project Archetype](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-core-components/using/developing/archetype/overview) has been updated to [version 49](https://github.com/adobe/aem-project-archetype/tree/aem-project-archetype-49).

## Early adoption program {#early-adoption}

For a chance to test some upcoming features, be a part of Adobe's early adoption program.

### Edge Delivery Services Support in Cloud Manager {#edge-delivery-services}

If you licensed Edge Delivery Services as part of Adobe Experience Manager Sites, [you can now onboard your site with Edge Delivery Services directly in Cloud Manager](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/edge-delivery/introduction-to-edge-delivery-services.md) and go live using a guided, self-service experience.

AEM properties now offer a unified experience across critical workflows. Users benefit from consistent management of domain names, SSL certificates, and CDN mappings.

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, send an email to `aemcs-cmedgedelsvs-program-adopter@adobe.com` from the email address associated with your Adobe ID. 

### Domain Validated (DV) Certificates

Cloud Manager now lets you [generate and manage domain validated (DV) SSL certificates](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/managing-ssl-certifications/add-ssl-certificate.md) yourself. This functionality gives you the fastest, easiest, and most cost-effective solution to create a secure website for your online business.

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, send an email to `Grp-aemcs-dv-dert-adopter@adobe.com` from the email address associated with your Adobe ID.

### Experience Audit Dashboard {#experience-audit-dashboard}

[The Cloud Manager Experience Audit dashboard](/help/implementing/cloud-manager/experience-audit-dashboard.md) includes a trended view of your page performance scores along with insights and recommendations to help you improve them. Experience Audit is included as a step in the Cloud Manager production pipeline.

The dashboard uses Google Lighthouse, an open-source, automated tool for improving the quality of your web apps. You can run it against any web page, public, or requiring authentication. It has audits for performance, accessibility, progressive web apps, SEO, and more.

Interested in test-driving the new dashboard? To get started, send an email to `aem-lighthouse-pilot@adobe.com` from your email associated with your Adobe ID.
