---
title: Universal Editor 2024.08.13 Release Notes
description: These are the release notes for the 2024.08.13 release of the Universal Editor.
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
exl-id: f47638b3-d85f-4c8b-8f13-92a1e1814c6b
---
# Universal Editor 2024.08.13 Release Notes {#release-notes}

These are the release notes for the 13 August 2024 release of the Universal Editor.

>[!TIP]
>
>For the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service, please see [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md).

## What's New {#what-is-new}

* **Custom Data Types**: Tailor the editor to your unique data needs with the ability to [create custom fields within the properties panel](https://developer.adobe.com/uix/docs/services/aem-universal-editor/api/item-types-renderers/).
  * Whether you're developing a custom product picker for commerce use-cases or populating a drop-down list with values from your backends, this feature gives you the control you need over the data that authors use to compose content.
* **Cross-Container Drag &amp; Drop**: Enjoy greater flexibility in layout composition with the ability to [move components across different containers via drag and drop](/help/sites-cloud/authoring/universal-editor/authoring.md#reordering-components) within the [Content Tree panel](/help/sites-cloud/authoring/universal-editor/navigation.md#content-tree-mode).
* **Optimized GitHub Integration**: Caching for GitHub responses have been introduced, significantly speeding up the retrieval of tags and the `universal-editor-cors-library`, resulting in a faster and smoother user experience.
* **Configurable IMS Token Validation**: To increase flexibility in token management, [IMS token validation is now optional](/help/implementing/universal-editor/local-dev.md#setting-up-service).
  * This configuration option allows you to disable validation as needed, simplifying your cloud gateway setups.
* **Splunk Integration**: Splunk logging has been integrated into the [Universal Editor Service for local development](/help/implementing/universal-editor/local-dev.md#setting-up-service), enhancing monitoring and diagnostics.
  * This integration ensures efficient log tracking, smoother operations, and quicker troubleshooting.

## Bug Fixes {#bug-fixes}

* **Enhanced Publishing Feedback**: If publication fails due to insufficient permissions, feedback to the user during publishing has been improved to display a clear warning instead of simply indicating a failure.
* **Improved URL Handling**: Issues with incorrect URL encoding/decoding that were causing publishing failures were fixed.
* **Accurate Data Handling**: An issue where float numbers were incorrectly stored as integers has been addressed, ensuring precise data handling across your content.
* **Security and Stability**: Security vulnerabilities in the Docker images have been fixed and test coverage for critical components like the Component Picker and Breadcrumbs have been implemented, leading to a more secure, stable, and reliable editor experience.
