---
title: Universal Editor 2024.09.26 Release Notes
description: These are the release notes for the 2024.09.26 release of the Universal Editor.
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
exl-id: f9baa86f-a83f-4477-8250-460b91659724
---
# Universal Editor 2024.09.26 Release Notes {#release-notes}

These are the release notes for the 26 September 2024 release of the Universal Editor.

>[!TIP]
>
>For the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service, please see [this page](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md).

## What's New {#what-is-new}

* **Underline RTE Option:** The Rich Text Editor now exposes an underline option, aligning with the formatting options of Edge Delivery Services.
* **Social Media Metadata Support:** The **Properties** panel now supports field names like `og:title` or `twitter:label1`, ensuring these namespaces are correctly escaped when saved.
  * This allows, for example, the insertion of social media metadata on EDS project pages.
* **Error Panel on CORS Timeout:** An error panel now displays if the Universal Editor can not connect to the loaded page, preventing endless loading states and enhancing the user experience.
  * To accommodate slower page load times, the Universal Editor will wait up to one minute to establish a connection before displaying that panel.
* **Support for IPv4 only systems:** IPv6 can now be disabled for IPv4 only systems in the Universal Editor Service if needed

## Early Adoption Program for 6.5 Support {#early-adoption}

The Universal Editor is now available for headless use cases when using AEM 6.5 as part of an early adopter program.

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, please send an email to your Adobe Customer Success Manager from the email address associated with your Adobe ID. 

## Bug Fixes {#bug-fixes}

* **Fixed Double Scrollbar:** Resolved an issue where an extra scrollbar appeared in Mobile Preview mode in the Responsive simulator
* **Default Boolean Value:** Corrected an issue where boolean fields were using default model values instead of user-defined values
* **Text Field Max Length:** Fixed a validation issue where text fields would incorrectly fail when set to a maximum length of `-1`, a value commonly used in AEM to indicate no character limit
