---
title: Universal Editor 2024.09.18 Release Notes
description: These are the release notes for the 2024.09.18 release of the Universal Editor.
feature: Release Information
role: Admin
exl-id: 0df4c2de-bcff-49ba-840e-65540f89bdd2
---
# Universal Editor 2024.09.18 Release Notes {#release-notes}

These are the release notes for the 18 September 2024 release of the Universal Editor.

>[!TIP]
>
>For the current release notes for Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service, please see [this page.](/help/release-notes/release-notes-cloud/release-notes-current.md)

## What’s New {#what-is-new}

* **Improved Debugging:** For easier troubleshooting, a details button has been added to the [toast](https://spectrum.adobe.com/page/toast/) error notifications that may appear at the bottom of the screen.
  * This button provides more detailed information on errors, while a single-click copy button simplifies reporting.
* **Extension-Driven URL Handling:** [Extensions](/help/implementing/universal-editor/customizing.md#extending) can now programmatically change the URL of the page loaded in the editor, enabling navigation options within extensions to direct users to relevant pages for editing.
  * This is exposed by the method: `guestConnection.host.editorActions.navigateTo(href: string);`
* **Side Panel on Universal Editor Home:** Extensions can now leverage an optional right panel on the Universal Editor’s home page to display options to authors, even in the initial view. 
  * The panel appears only when in use by extensions, keeping the interface clean and focused.

## Early Adoption Program for 6.5 Support {#early-adoption}

The Universal Editor is now available for headless use cases when using AEM 6.5 as part of an early adopter program.

If you are interested in testing this new feature and sharing your feedback, please send an email to your Adobe Customer Success Manager from the email address associated with your Adobe ID. 

## Bug Fixes {#bug-fixes}

* **Misfiring Edit Events:** Fixed an issue where `aue:ui-edit` events were incorrectly triggered during in-context edits.
  * This event now fires only when switching from preview to edit mode or when a page is initially loaded in the canvas.
* **Keyboard Shortcuts Restored:** Restored the keyboard shortcuts that were previously affected by a cross-domain security enhancement
* **Fixed Media Links:** Resolved an issue where empty asset URLs in the side panel would disappear when users clicked the canvas or resized the window
* **Canvas Layout Fixes:** Addressed a visual issue where long content in the right panel caused the canvas height to expand
* **Accurate Data Types on Creation:** Ensured type hints are correctly applied during component creation, so that boolean and other data types are saved accurately according to configuration
