---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2020.4.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2020.4.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 15665fb5-9444-416b-938a-45c31fdce5cf
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2020.4.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2020.4.0.

## Release date {#release-date}

The Release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2020.4.0 is April 09, 2020.

## What's new {#whats-new-cloud-manager}

* Publisher URLs are now available from the Environment page in Cloud Manager UI.
* Changes to navigation to allow the user to edit, switch or add a program from the Cloud Manager overview page.
* Changes enable users to edit the program directly from the program card on the Cloud Manager landing page.
* New pipeline status **Pipeline Running** displayed against the environment it is associated with.
* Improvements to pipeline execution page comprehensibility. This improvement includes the display of Pipeline name (non-production pipeline only) and type, and a badge to indicate if the pipeline status is In Progress/Cancelled/Failed.
* Tool tips to improve user experience and comprehensibility of why the Add Program/Environment button is disabled.
* Failed Environments can now be deleted through the UI and API.
* The process used to generate Git passwords has been made more resilient to issues in the underlying service layer.

### Bug fixes {#bug-fixes-cloud-manager}

* The links to the stage environment on the pipeline execution details page were not consistently navigating to the correct location.
* Individual steps within the environment creation process would time out earlier than necessary, causing the process to fail.
* The Maven configuration used in the build container was updated to avoid deadlocks when downloading artifact metadata.
* In some cases, the Build Image step would fail to download customer packages successfully.
* Certain infrequently occurring conditions would prevent environments from being deleted.
* Experience Cloud notifications were not consistently received.
