---
title: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2020.6.0
description: Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service Release 2020.6.0
feature: Release Information
exl-id: 879a5025-f94f-4549-bf6e-e1cc6b6a7b58
role: Admin
---
# Release Notes for Cloud Manager in Adobe Experience Manager as a Cloud Service 2020.6.0 {#release-notes}

This page outlines the Release Notes for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2020.6.0.

## Release date {#release-date}

The Release date for Cloud Manager in AEM as a Cloud Service 2020.6.0 is June 04, 2020.

## What's new {#whats-new-cloud-manager}

* A user with the *Business Owner* role in Cloud Manager can now delete a Sandbox Program directly from the landing page using the quick action button on the Program card. They can also delete it from within the program itself.

* A Sandbox Program user in the *Business Owner* or *Deployment Manager* role in Cloud Manager is now able to delete their Production and Stage environment set via the Cloud Manager UI. The delete option is now available from both the Environment card on the **Programs Overview** page and the **Environments** page. Selecting the delete option on either Production or Stage also deletes the other in the set.

* Coach marks on the landing page to inform and instruct the user about basic navigation.

* Coach marks on the **Program Overview** page to inform and instruct the user about basic navigation inside Cloud Manager to get them started.

* A **LEARN** page is now available in Cloud Manager, accessible via the top navigation. This page includes resources to help users learn about the most frequently used work-flows as relevant to their roles assigned in Cloud Manager.

* A **Sandbox** badge now identifies Sandbox Programs, appearing on the program card on the landing page. It is also displayed next to the program name in the **Program Overview** page.

* A user in the SysAdmin role now has one-click access to the location in the Admin Console from where user roles or permissions to Cloud Manager can be managed. A **Manage Access** button is now available on the landing page next to the **Add Program** button.
  
* A user in the SysAdmin role now has one-click access to author instance directly from Cloud Manager. 

* The Build log now includes the list of discovered artifacts, including skipped content packages.

* The Build step now validates that generated content packages include all mandatory properties – name, group and version.

* The Build step now validates that the build produced at least one content package.

### Bug fixes {#bug-fixes-cm}

* In certain situations, the icons in the **Create Program** dialog were misaligned.

* The AEM release identifier was not consistently displayed on the **Programs Overview** page.

* When configuring the production pipeline, the **Scheduled Deployment** option was not visible for some customers.

### Known issues {#known-issues-cm}

* Environments within a Sandbox Program are hibernated when no activity is detected for a certain duration. This status is not observed in Cloud Manager. However, the status can be observed through the Developer Console. This ability is being addressed in an upcoming release.

* The link to the Developer Console directly from Cloud Manager does not display the option to de-hibernate/hibernate a Sandbox Program's environment. To address this issue, at the Developer Console, add the pattern `#release-cm-p1234-e5678` to the end of the url, where *1234* is the Program ID and *5678* is the Environment ID. This ability is being addressed in an upcoming release.
